#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{babel}
\usepackage{babel}
\usepackage{babel}





  \providecommand{\assumptionname}{Assumption}
  \providecommand{\axiomname}{Axiom}
  \providecommand{\claimname}{Claim}
  \providecommand{\definitionname}{Definition}
  \providecommand{\lemmaname}{Lemma}
  \providecommand{\propositionname}{Proposition}
  \providecommand{\remarkname}{Remark}
\providecommand{\corollaryname}{Corollary}
\providecommand{\theoremname}{Theorem}



  \providecommand{\axiomname}{Axiom}
  \providecommand{\claimname}{Claim}
  \providecommand{\definitionname}{Definition}
  \providecommand{\remarkname}{Remark}
\providecommand{\corollaryname}{Corollary}
\providecommand{\theoremname}{Theorem}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\begin_modules
theorems-ams-bytype
theorems-ams-extended-bytype
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding iso8859-15
\fontencoding default
\font_roman "cmr" "default"
\font_sans "cmss" "default"
\font_typewriter "cmtt" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family rmdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing double
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 2
\use_package amssymb 2
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 2
\use_package mathdots 0
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 0
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plainnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1.25in
\topmargin 1.25in
\rightmargin 1.25in
\bottommargin 1.25in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Micro Summer: Problem Set 2.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Victor H.
 Aguiar 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
This version: August 2020
\end_layout

\begin_layout Exercise
Find the Marshallian demand from the following utility functions: (i) (Leontief)
 
\begin_inset Formula $u(x_{1},x_{2})=min\{\alpha_{1}x_{1},\alpha_{2}x_{2}\}$
\end_inset

 and (ii) (linear) 
\begin_inset Formula $u(x_{1},x_{2})=x_{1}+x_{2}$
\end_inset

, subject to 
\begin_inset Formula $p_{1}x_{1}+p_{2}x_{2}=w$
\end_inset

 for strictly positive prices and positive wealth.
 (Hint: you cannot use the KKT conditions for (i) because the Leontief function
 is non-differentiable).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Separator parbreak
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Exercise
Consider the following problem, the consumer has a continuous utility function
 
\begin_inset Formula $u:X\mapsto\mathbb{R}$
\end_inset

 defined over 
\begin_inset Formula $X\subseteq\mathbb{R}_{++}^{L}$
\end_inset

, his budget constraint is given by a continuous function 
\begin_inset Formula $b:X\times\mathbb{R}_{++}^{L}\mapsto\mathbb{R}_{++}^{L}$
\end_inset

 such that 
\begin_inset Formula $b(x,p)\leq w$
\end_inset

 where 
\begin_inset Formula $w$
\end_inset

 is a positive amount of wealth.
 (i) Show that the Utility Maximization Problem with the non-linear budget
 constraint defined before has a solution.
 (ii) Describe sufficient conditions over the function 
\begin_inset Formula $b$
\end_inset

 (i.e., convexity/concavity with respect to 
\begin_inset Formula $x$
\end_inset

) and over 
\begin_inset Formula $u$
\end_inset

 such that the solution is unique.
 (iii) What is the Slutsky matrix in this case (Hint: Recall that a Slutsky
 demand is 
\begin_inset Formula $x^{slutsky}(p,q)=x(p,p'q)$
\end_inset

 in the linear budget constraint case when 
\begin_inset Formula $b(x,p)=p'x$
\end_inset

, assume that 
\begin_inset Formula $b(x,p)=w$
\end_inset

 in this part).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Separator parbreak
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Exercise
Consider the Cobb-Douglas case 
\begin_inset Formula $u(x_{1},x_{2})=x_{1}^{\alpha}x_{2}^{1-\alpha}$
\end_inset

 for the UMP problem with linear constraint 
\begin_inset Formula $p_{1}x_{1}+p_{2}x_{2}=w$
\end_inset

.
 (i) Solve the UMP, (ii) solve the associated EMP.
 (iii) Compute the indirect utility, the expenditure function.
 (iv) Verify Roy's Identity and Sheppard's lemma.
 (v) Verify that 
\begin_inset Formula $h(p,v(p,w))=x(p,w)$
\end_inset

 and that 
\begin_inset Formula $w=e(p,v(p,w))$
\end_inset

.
 (vi) Verify the Slutsky Equation.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
